# Shouter-DirectShow-Filters
DirectShow filters for using the Shout protocol to live-stream audio or video to streaming servers such as Icecast.

Icecast (http://icecast.org/) is a quick and easy way to set up your own private audio or video channel online, using the Windows platform (or Linux as well, but my original project parameters specified Windows). There are several Windows applications such as EZStream (http://icecast.org/ezstream/) that will allow you to stream pre-recorded audio or video files via the Shout protocol to Icecast. However, there are fewer ways in Windows to Shout-stream live content (such as webcam video) to Icecast.

I've written two very simple DirectShow filters to accomplish this: MP3ShoutStream.dll, which handles MP3 audio, and OggShoutStream.dll, which handles Ogg-Theora video (as well as Ogg-Vorbis audio).
	
I'm going to assume you know how to link up DirectShow filters into a graph to use this, either programmatically or with the GraphEdit test application from Microsoft. If you create a DirectShow graph with an audio or video source, connect it to the correct DirectShow encoder, and then link that to OggShoutStream.dll, you should be able to send live audio or video to Icecast, and from there broadcast it over the Internet so that simple HTML5 browser pages can play it. (See the instructions.txt file for details on how to use these filters, communicate with Icecast, and receive Icecast streamed content.)

Please note that the various dependencies included here are just Windows versions of other organizations' open source projects. Most of my work boiled down to aggregating these dependencies into a solution that compiled and functioned; this wasn't necessarily straightforward, since Windows versions of these libraries were perhaps understandably not top priority for them. In particular, I'd like to thank the authors of the EZStream code, which I used as a baseline project for finding and adjusting the various dependencies, and I also have to thank Xiph.org (http://xiph.org/) for actually providing the vast majority of these dependencies. Mostly I just stitched together the LibShout library with some of Xiph.org's DirectShow filters, resulting in MP3ShoutStream and OggShoutStream.
